Hello and welcome back to the course on
deep learning.
So we've learnt quite a lot in this section of the course.
Let's summarize what we've talked about.
Alright so here we go;
We started with an input image
to which we applied multiple different feature detectors
what are also called filters to create these feature maps
and this comprises our Convolutional Layer.
Then on top of that Convolutional Layer we applied the RLU
or Rectified Linear Unit
to remove any linearity or increase nonlinearity
in our images.
Then we applied a Pooling Layer to our Convolutional Layer
so from every single Feature Map we created a
Pooled Feature Map and basically
the Pooling Layer has lots of advantages.
The main purpose of the Pooling Layer
is to make sure
that
we have
spatial invariance in our images
so basically if something tilts or twists or um
is a bit different to the ideal scenario
then we can still pick up that feature plus
Pooling significantly reduces the size of our images.
And also Pooling helps with avoiding
any kind of over fitting of our data
or of our model to the data because it just
simply gets rid of a lot of that data.
But at the same time Pooling preserves
the main features that we're after
just because the way it's structured
and the Pooling we used was max Pooling.
Then we flattened all of the Pooled images into
one long vector or
column of all of these
values and we input that into an artificial neural network
and that was Step 3: Flattening and Step 4
is a fully connected artificial neural network
where all of these features are processed
through a network and then we have this final layer
final fully connected layer
which performs the voting towards the classes
that we're altering.
Then all of this is trudged though a forward propagation
and back propagation.
The process and lots and lots of iterations an epox
and in the end we have a very well defined neural network.
And another important thing is not only
the weights are trained in the artificial neural network but
also the feature detectors are trained and
adjusted in that same gradient decent process
and that allows us to come up with the best Feature Maps.
And in the end we get a fully trained
Convolutional Neural Network
which can recognize images and classify them.
So there we go that's how Convolutional Neural Networks work
and now you should be totally comfortable with this concept
and ready to proceed to the practical applications.
If you'd like to do some additional reading
then there's a great blog by Adit Deshpande from 2016.
You can see the link there at the bottom.
So the blog is called The Nine Deep Learning Papers
You Need to Know About (Understanding CNNs Part 3).
And this blog actually gives you a short overview
of nine different CNNs
that have been created by people like Yann LeCun and
others which you can then go ahead and study further.
So there will be a lot of new things that will be
totally new to you and that you will have to
get your head around but
just keep this blog in mind
or these nine papers in mind and
even if you're not ready to go through them right now
maybe after the practical tutorials
maybe after you do some additional training
in the space of Deep Learning
slowly you can then reference these works and
ideally I think you will get a lot of value through
looking through other peoples neural networks
and how they structured their Convolutional Nets
and that'll help you understand
what are the best practices
and why people did certain things in a certain way.
And that will help you with your architecture
of neural networks.
Because neural networks
and Convolutional Neural Networks are not an exception
they are like an architecture challenge.
You have to come up with a idea
and then a structure and then adjust it and tweak it
to get the best possible design and
the best possible and optimal performance.
So there we go
that's us for today.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial
and this whole section
and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then enjoy Deep Learning.